Generalize handshake path validation (#4330)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

Connection establishment implicitly provides address validation for both
endpoints.  In particular, receipt of a packet protected with Handshake keys

> confirms that the peer received an endpoint's Initial packet.  Once an endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
confirms that the peer successfully processed an Initial packet.  Once an endpoint
```

has successfully processed a Handshake packet from the peer, it can consider the

> peer's address to have been validated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
peer address to have been validated.
```

Additionally, an endpoint MAY consider the peer address validated if the peer
uses a connection ID chosen by the endpoint and the connection ID contains at

> least 64 bits of entropy.  This means that any valid packet received by the

Reviewer 2: I think there is a disconnect between the two sentences.

First sentence talks about the peer using the connection ID chosen by the endpoint. But the second sentence tries to derive from the first sentence that the original DCID chosen by the client, which is _never_ chosen as a connection ID by the server, working as a proof.

I think it might make sense to preserve the second paragraph as-is, then add a separate paragraph pointing out that a client validates the server's address when receiving a Initial packet that can be successfully processed, because the protection keys are derived from the client-chosen DCID that is at least 64 bits long.

Reviewer: This is a good point.  I've a proposal inbound that doesn't add sentences, but rewrites the second instead.

Retry or Version Negotiation are included, but by virtue of their inclusion as a Source Connection ID, not the Initial packet protection.

> client validates the server address.

Reviewer 3: We don't seem to define "valid packet" anywhere. Do we have a definition?

Reviewer: Successfully processed, perhaps

Connection establishment implicitly provides address validation for both
endpoints.  In particular, receipt of a packet protected with Handshake keys
confirms that the peer successfully processed an Initial packet.  Once an
endpoint has successfully processed a Handshake packet from the peer, it can
consider the peer address to have been validated.

Additionally, an endpoint MAY consider the peer address validated if the peer
uses a connection ID chosen by the endpoint and the connection ID contains at
least 64 bits of entropy.

For the client, the value of the Destination Connection ID field in its first
Initial packet allows it to validate the server address as a part of
successfully processing any packet.  Initial packets from the server are
protected with keys that are derived from this value (see Section 5.2 of
{{QUIC-TLS}}).  Alternatively, the value is echoed by the server in Retry and

> Version Negotiation packets.

Reviewer 3: It is not echoed in the Retry packet - it is included in the Retry Pseudo-packet over which the integrity tag is computed.

> {{QUIC-TLS}}).  Alternatively, the value is echoed by the server in Retry and
> Version Negotiation packets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{QUIC-TLS}}). Additionally, the value is echoed by the server in Version
Negotiation packets ({{version-negotiation}}), and included in the Integrity Tag
in Retry packets (Section 5.8 of {{QUIC-TLS}}).
```
